what happens when the most popular guy
on campus meets the prettiest journalist
on campus an hour and a half of
hilarious fun i'm luke pelletier and
today we're covering the 2002 comedy van
wilder
as usual caress that like button drop a
comment and subscribe to flix recap if
you dig the commentary
and as a disclaimer this video contains
my own personal analysis and commentary
it's not a substitute to watching the
film itself
links to purchase the film are in the
description below
it's the first day of spring semester at
coolidge college and van wilder appears
to be getting a little bit more pleasure
from an old lady than he should although
she just turns out to be his seamstress
leaving his pants with souk me van
attempts to apply his wisdom as he
stands half naked on the roof of the
school trying to convince poor timmy not
to jump
but for timmy jumps anyway
probably just to get away from van's
junk but our charismatic van is
apparently still popular enough to need
a personal assistant so we meet some
choice characters as he's interviewing
students for the position
no one seems to be quite the right fit
until he finally meets the one
taj but when van's dad learns that van
has been spending a fortune going to
college for seven years he decides to
stop paying van's tuition and it was
here van wilder seemed to carry the
torch for millennials in pioneering the
fight against crippling student debt
now seeing as how promiscuous van is we
know some hottie is going to catch his
attention
and it's obviously going to be college
journalist gwen
she's sure to win van over with her
charm and intelligence her only flaw
right now is her loser boyfriend richard
who can't even get college hazing right
and what would early 2000s college be
without a classic kegger but when van's
dad arrives and in an epic party foul
announces he's cutting off his financial
support vann is forced to come up with a
plan to raise the money on his own which
apparently involves seducing the dean
but that backfires and she has her way
with van instead
traumatized by the event with miss haver
van spends his last 34 dollars in a
strip club where he comes up with the
gem of an idea of topless tutors as a
way to raise the money for tuition after
gwen's editor insists that she write
another article about van she goes to
van's room and asks him for an interview
but all that van can think about is
getting in her pants
and as reluctant as she is to even write
the article she can't help but be
intrigued by him however when they meet
for their first date slash interview
gwen is put off when van gets naked
things are looking pretty bleak when the
strip club owner storms in on van to
reclaim his strippers putting an end to
topless tutors thankfully unibrow saves
the day when he hires van to plan a
party for him with the purpose of
increasing the nerd's boner ability it
isn't much money but it'll keep the cash
flowing in for his tuition eager to get
her article gwen ditches her boyfriend's
lame party for vance shindig
there she overhears the nerds talking
about how much money they paid van to
organize the party this inspires her to
write an article that promotes van as a
party liaison and fuels van's next
attempt at raising tuition the article
is such a hit that her editor convinces
her to write another article by
promising her the front page of the
graduation issue and since gwen's
article has turned van's party planning
into a cash cow he agrees to at least
meet again to discuss it
on one condition another date under the
guise of being an interview
as we might expect poor richard stepped
away from his almanac and is getting
jealous about the time and attention
that gwen is giving van
and we can't wait to see what half-assed
attempt he's going to make to destroy
van and so richard's scheme hatchery
begins
but van is also full of schemes to get
gwen's attention and usually his plans
work out for him except when he
challenges gwen to hockey and loses to
her crazy skills
forced to now answer all her questions
they have an intellectual conversation
and van gets hooked on her and after
seeing richard's pathetic prowess i'm
thinking van has a pretty good shot here
richard strikes back by sending van an
invitation to a dinner at gwen's parents
house when he's not actually invited
van thinks gwen sent the invite so he
ditches a frat party to attend
only he finds that richard is already
there surprise surprise and when van
walks into a room full of doctors in
suits it's apparent that richard thinks
van is in over his head
but instead van turns the tables and
wins over the room and gwen too
van and gwen might be hitting it off but
he's not about to forget richard's
attempt to humiliate him at her parents
house
so in retaliation van's troublesome trio
fills the eclairs with semen from his
dog and serves them up fresh and gooey
out of the oven to richard and his frat
boys
meanwhile things are getting hot back in
taja's room where van's massage oil
scented candle barry white combo turns
out to be a bad mix for taj's clumsiness
because he sets himself and the room on
fire literally burning away all of van's
saved money in the process i feel like
keeping money around just in piles
probably isn't a good idea to begin with
so
either way this means van's gonna have
to come up with another plan to pay his
tuition
when gwen finds out that van could have
easily graduated for the past six
semesters she becomes even more obsessed
with him i mean i get it he's attractive
smart complex and fun so yeah makes
sense but then richard's kiss-ass
wannabe girlfriend sees gwen and van
talking in the girls changing room and
she rats them out to richard so in
another scheme to try and humiliate van
richard decides to hire van to organize
his bachelor party the thing is this is
the first time van has heard of their
engagement and he's devastated except
they aren't actually engaged still vann
doesn't know that and when gwen goes to
find van she finds some other floozy
sitting in his lap and storms off
richard then tries to sink van by
getting his minion to bring children to
van's frat party and then calling the
cops but richard hasn't done anything to
win back gwen instead he's actually done
the opposite and van still thinks that
gwen is actually engaged to richard so
because vann is falling in love with
gwen he's ready to walk away from
coolidge college when they want to expel
him because of the party but because
he's so popular a ridiculous amount of
students get together to convince fan to
fight the expulsion and with everyone
rallying together van smooth talking and
apparently his brownie points with miss
haver end up convincing the college to
allow him to stay so that he can try to
graduate and that's when gwen learns
about richard's infidelity and his
involvement in vans expulsion
she spikes richard's protein shakes with
laxatives like a heroic dose of
laxatives right before his exams and i
gotta say it's pretty satisfying to
watch richard's discomfort as he
struggles to keep it all in
but he really gets his just desserts
when he starts defecating in a garbage
can in front of some very important
suits meanwhile van seems to be crushing
his exams after everyone gets together
to help him study and his efforts to
earn his degree have become all the hype
on campus
gwen's article about vann made it to the
front page of the college paper too and
it appears to be as popular as he is
gwen spills the truth about how douchey
richard is and how awesome van is
so in the end van rocks his exams and
wins a place in gwen's heart and her
front page article taj meets the girl of
his dreams and even van's dad comes
around to congratulating him
i feel like the common trope is for the
stud to also be the douche but that's
not the case in van wilder that's why
kicking back and watching the glory days
of ryan reynolds tara reid and tim
matheson is a treasure in and of itself
with this one but what did you think let
me know in the comments below and of
course be sure to drop a like for the
commentary and subscribe to the channel
so you don't miss the next recap until
next time